Technical Review: Image Management (#736)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/administration/pages/image-management.adoc

[[at.images.overview]]
== Image Building Overview

{productname} enables system administrators to build containers and OS Images and push the result in image stores.
The process is clearly defined in the workflow:

1. Define an image stores
2. Define an image profile and associate it with a source (Git or a directory)
3. Build the image
4. Push the image in the image store

> {productname} supports two distinct build types:

Author: Why not `Dockerfile`?

> {productname} supports two distinct build types:

Reviewer: "Docker" is a proper noun, but "dockerfile" is not.

For more information on Containers or CaaS Platform, see:

* https://www.suse.com/documentation/sles-15/book_sles_docker/data/book_sles_docker.html[SUSE Linux Enterprise Server Docker Guide]
* https://www.suse.com/documentation/suse-caasp-4/[SUSE CaaS Platform 4 Documentation]

[[at.images.docker.buildhost]]
=== Create a Build Host

> To build images with {productname}, you will need to create and configure a Build Host.

Author: It's capitalized in the product too:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/530992/65505583-d4b5fc80-dec9-11e9-8cf7-7b665ad26291.png)

> To build images with {productname}, you will need to create and configure a Build Host.

Reviewer: I would only initcap it in docs if we were directly referring to a UI element, in that case.
So, we would write "Add a container build host by checking the [guimenu]``Container Build Host`` checkbox". Having initcaps scattered through the documentation just makes it harder to read. This article explains it well: https://www.mity.com.au/blog/writing-readable-content-and-why-all-caps-is-so-hard-to-read

> To build images with {productname}, you will need to create and configure a Build Host.

Author: Fixed

[[at.images.docker.buildchannels]]
=== Create an Activation Key for containers

> The containers built using {productname} will use channel(s) associated to the Activation Key as repositories when building the image. This section will guide you into creating an ad-hoc Activation Key for this purpose.

Author: See below comment on Activation Key style

> The containers built using {productname} will use channel(s) associated to the Activation Key as repositories when building the image. This section will guide you into creating an ad-hoc Activation Key for this purpose.

Author: Fixed

[NOTE]
.Relationship Between Activation Keys and Image Profiles
====

> To build a container, you will need an Activation Key that is associated with a channel other than `SUSE Manager Default`.

Author: I think we have all styles in writing "Activation Keys" in the docs:

```
mbologna@xray:~/Development/doc-susemanager (master =) % rg -r -o "Activation Key" | wc -l  
64
mbologna@xray:~/Development/doc-susemanager (master =) % rg -r -o "Activation key" | wc -l
6
mbologna@xray:~/Development/doc-susemanager (master =) % rg -r -o "activation key" | wc -l
142
```
We should stick to one. Which one would you suggest?

> To build a container, you will need an Activation Key that is associated with a channel other than `SUSE Manager Default`.

Reviewer: In a heading:
``Create an Activation Key``

At the beginning of a sentence:
``Activation keys are created with ....``

In the middle of a sentence:
``Create an activation key with ... ``

All three are correct :)

> To build a container, you will need an Activation Key that is associated with a channel other than `SUSE Manager Default`.

Author: Fixed

If your container image tag is in a format such as `myproject/myimage`, make sure your image store registry URI contains the `/myproject` suffix.
====

. Use a Dockerfile as the `Image Type`.

. Use the drop-down menu to select your registry from the `Target Image Store` field.

. Enter a GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket repository URL (http, https, or token authentication) in the [guimenu]``Path`` field using one of the following formats:

.GitHub Path Options
* GitHub single user project repository
+
----
https://github.com/USER/project.git#branchname:folder
----

* GitHub organization project repository
+
----
https://github.com/ORG/project.git#branchname:folder
----

* GitHub token authentication
+

> If your Git repository is private and not publicly accessible, you need to modify the profile's Git URL to include authentication.

Author: OK, fixing

.Relationship Between Activation Keys and Image Profiles
[NOTE]
====
When you associate an Activation Key with an image profile you are ensuring any image using the profile will use the correct software channel and any packages in the channel.
====

. Click the btn:[Create] button.

[[at.images.docker.sourceexample]]

> ==== Example of Dockerfile sources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example Dockerfile Sources
```

An Image Profile that can be reused is published at https://github.com/SUSE/manager-build-profiles

[NOTE]

> .Important instructions in the Dockerfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

====
The [option]``ARG`` parameters ensure that the built image is associated with the desired repository version served by {productname}.
The [option]``ARG`` parameters also allow you to build image versions of {sls} which may differ from the version of {sls} used by the Build Host itself.

For example: The [comand]``ARG repo`` parameter and the [command]``echo`` command pointing to the repository file, creates and then injects the correct path into the repository file for the desired channel version.

> _The repository version is determined by the Activation Key that you assigned to your image profile._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repository version is determined by the Activation Key that you assigned to your image profile.
```

====

[NOTE]

> .Packages Required for Inspecting Your Images

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

====

> To inspect images and provide the package and product list of a container to the {productname} {webui} you must install [package]#python# and [package]#python-xml# within the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [package]#python# and [package]#python-xml# packages must be installed in the container.
They are required for inspecting images, and for providing the package and product list of a container to the {productname} {webui}.
```

> Without these packages your images will still build, but the package and product list will be unavailable from the {webui}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not install them, images will still build but the package and product list will not available in the {webui}.
```

Reviewer: It seems odd to me that we say "you must install these things" followed immediately by "but it'll work if you don't".

These are some known problems when working with images:

* HTTPS certificates to access the registry or the Git repositories should be deployed to the client by a custom state file.
* SSH Git access using Docker is currently unsupported.
* If the [package]#python# and [package]#python-xml# packages are not installed in your images during the build process, reporting of installed packages or products will fail.
This will result in an ``unknown`` update status.

[[at.images.kiwi]]
== OS Images

> OS Images are built by the Kiwi image system. The output image is customizable and can be: PXE, QCOW2, LiveCD images, and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OS Images are built by the Kiwi image system. 
The output image is customizable and can be PXE, QCOW2, LiveCD, or other types of images.
```

[[at.images.kiwi.requirements]]
=== Requirements

The Kiwi image building feature is available for Salt clients running {sls}{nbsp}12.

> Starting from {sls}{nbsp}15, kiwi-ng will be used instead of the legacy Kiwi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From {sls}{nbsp}15, ``kiwi-ng`` is used instead of the legacy Kiwi.
```

Kiwi image configuration files and configuration scripts must be accessible in one of these locations:

* Git repository
* HTTP hosted tarball
* Local Build Host directory

> An example of a complete Kiwi repo served by Git can be found at https://github.com/SUSE/manager-build-profiles/tree/master/OSImage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example of a complete Kiwi repository served by git, see https://github.com/SUSE/manager-build-profiles/tree/master/OSImage
```

[[at.images.kiwi.buildchannels]]
=== Create an Activation Key for OS Images

Create an Activation Key associated with the channel that your OS Images will use as repositories when building the image.

Activation keys are mandatory for OS Image building.

[NOTE]

> .Relationship Between Activation Keys and Image Profiles

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
